# ffvii-highwind
FFVII Highwind
A Tool to Assist your Quest to Max HP/MP With Optimal Resets

Created by codemann8

Highwind is a tool to assist any player wishing to achieve Natural Max HP/MP for any characters in the Final Fantasy VII game.  The goal is to minimize the probability of requiring resets into the future by making smarter choices in the begininng.  Prior to this tool, there was only a guide[See 'Evolution' below] to tell you each character's Safety Level, the level in which all HP and MP values that can be achieved at this level all have paths that can lead to the maximum possible HP and MP.  The level following the Safety Level is where the player must now start verifying whether their HP and MP can eventually lead to maximum values.  To do this, one had to look up values in a chart, found in Party Mechanics Guide on GameFAQs made by Terence, and later corrected and made more complete in AbsoluteSteve's Full Walkthrough, also on GameFAQs.  This tool builds on the knowledge of both guides and incorporates the game's probability calculation to determine and provide for you an insight as to which value you can expect to be more fruitful.  For example, you might hit one of your safe values for a level on the first try, but that value may cost you an estimated 63 restarts more down the line due to the possible paths to the end shrinking as you reach the end; However, instead of taking that value you got on the first try which leads to sooner doom, it could be possible that there's a 1/8 chance of hitting a value with a better future path that doesn't lead to that extra 63 restarts, and this tool helps you determine that.

How to Use:
1) First, all that is needed is the executable (*.exe), found in /FFVIIHighwind/bin/x64/Debug/, however, this should be placed into a directory of some kind that you have 'write' permissions for, there are some cache files that are created in the same directory as the program to save yourself from constant recalculation.
2) Upon opening, you can click each Character to see all the paths available in the tree window.
3) You can start by entering in your Characters' Level, HP, and MP in the boxes on the top and then hitting Set, this will refresh the tree to that node and will show you the possible values you can get during the next Level Up.  Hitting Clear will reset that Character and the tree will show Lv 1.
3) The tree will show to the Level of the Character, followed by the HP and MP value, followed by the chance of hitting that value, followed by the estimated range of game resets required. For example, one node in the tree may say: Lv 83 (7307 / 814) 4.3% chance [141.92 - 850.46 resets]. This merely shows you that at least one path exists from this point that could mathematically result in an an average of 142 resets, but there's also at least one that could be 850 resets. It also shows you that it has a 4.3% chance of hitting.  These numbers shouldn't affect too much of your decision, but it at least shows you the range.
4) If you click on any node in the tree and click Simulate, it will run thru 10k simulations and let you know how many resets it took in actual practice. The message shows you two simulations, the first "normal" simulation is using the standard method that was used in the past where you simply try until you get ANY safe value and then continue. The second set of simulations is the "smart" simulation, which is still a work in progress as of the writing of this README, but this will be a calculated method that will opt to skip safe values that lead towards bad paths.  Running Simulate will also update the text on the node to display the results: Lv 83 (7307 / 814) 4.3% chance [141.92 - (624.76) - 850.46 resets]. This number should be the metric to use to determine how "good" that value is. You can compare this number to the other nodes. A future version will attempt to do this determination for you, but if you are considering opting to retry for a better value, consider that it will cost you more resets to get that better value.  There are many times where there are many more values that are better, thus it will have a higher chance of improvement. Let's say your next Level has two safe values and when playing the game you get one of the values but it is 30 resets higher than the other value. If that other value shows a 2.73% chance of hitting, thats an estimated ( 100 / 2.73 ) - 1 = ~36 resets to achieve.  So you would be trying to gain 30 resets by costing you roughly 36 resets, this would be a bad deal.  I also consider lateral moves to be a bad idea, you have a guaranteed value in front of you and it's all up to chance anyways, sometimes that estimated 36 resets actually results in 90+ resets, but also sometimes 10 resets. So, use the Simulated resets to determine the values of each and whether you should continue down that path.  Optionally, and definitely recommended, if you select your top node and check the "Children" checkbox under Simulate before Simulating, it will simulate all the children nodes in one process. Simulations take quite a bit of time so a word of caution using it.  Caution, closing and reopening Highwind causes you to lose simulated values, they will need to be re-Simulated.
5) When you've decided to accept the value the game gave you, select that node and hit Set, this will re-structure the tree and display it accordingly.

In review, you can either enter your Characters' Level, HP, and MP in the textboxes or by selecting a node in the tree and hitting Set, depending on which is more convenient given the situation. Simulate the next level's values to see the average resets in actual practice.  Try to focus on reducing the average resets but not to be too picky, that will ensure the best results.

Evolution:
1) First, Terence, a user on GameFAQs, pioneered the exploration of the game's inner calculation of HP and MP during each Level Up.  He found that for each given Level Up, there are 8 possible HP values and 8 possible MP values.  Due to the game's algorithm, he found there was a curve to the calculation, effectively penalizing you for always only going for the highest HP or MP available.  Instead, it's generally better to go for average until the end.  He then provided 2 charts for each Character, one for HP safe values and another for MP safe values.  These are to help guarantee a possible path to a maximum value at Level 99.
2) However, it was later found that it's not possible to gain both the highest HP and highest MP during the same Level Up, so additional work was needed to determine how to grow both HP and MP at the same time.  AbsoluteSteve, another user of GameFAQs, created 1 chart for each character that combined both HP and MP.
3) As mentioned earlier, there's 8 possible HP and MP values during each Level Up.  These are determined by the game's RNG (Random Number Generator). However, due to the game having a poor RNG implementation, it was found that not only is the highest of both not possible to achieve, there's a couple combinations that also aren't possible.  Along with that, it was found that some combinations hit more often than others, in fact, some hit 9/256 while others hit 1/256.  Because of this wide disparity of probability, this would mean that some paths leading to Max HP/MP have better probabilities than some others.  That is what Highwind helps you, the gamer, determine.  Starting at Level 1 for a given Character, the min/max resets may show as 100 vs 950, meaning, if you stayed true to the 100 path, on average, you will reset your console 100 times.  This, of course, is an absurb goal as the odds of hitting that 100 reset path is astronomical.  The better metric to use is the average resets, which is a value you get after simulating your options.  This is a better number to compare your options with, this will be the number of resets you're looking at, more specifically Highwind will help you "beat" that number. As you progress, it is wise to consider only paths that reduce your probable resets.
